README.md, before:

# Open Circle Agent Skills

A collection of [Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io) for [Open Circle](https://opencircle.dev) projects. These skills help AI agents define how schema definitions, validation logic, and form behavior are handled with Valibot and Formisch.

## Contents

- [What are Agent Skills?](#what-are-agent-skills)
- [Purpose](#purpose)
- [Who this is for](#who-this-is-for)
- [Skills Included](#skills-included)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Skill Structure](#skill-structure)
- [FAQ](#faq)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [About Open Circle](#about-open-circle)
- [License](#license)

## What are Agent Skills?

Agent Skills are a lightweight, open format for extending AI agent capabilities with specialized knowledge and workflows. Each skill is a folder containing a `SKILL.md` file with metadata and instructions that help AI agents understand how to use specific tools and libraries.

Learn more at [agentskills.io](https://agentskills.io)

## Purpose

These skills provide rules for:

* Defining and validating schemas with Valibot
* Handling form state and transitions with Formisch

Without these skills:

* Schema structure is undefined
* Form behavior is not standardized
* Agent output is inconsistent

## Who this is for

This repository is for developers who are:

* Building agents that generate, validate, or reason about structured data or forms
* Using or evaluating Valibot or Formisch in agent workflows
* Wanting rules for how schema and form logic is applied by the agent

This requires an agent runtime that loads instructions from `SKILL.md` files.

## Skills included

| Skill             | Purpose                          | When to use                                              |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| [valibot-usage](skills/valibot-usage/)  | Schema definition and validation | Validating data structures, API responses, or user input |
| [formisch-usage](skills/formisch-usage/)| Form state handling              | Managing multi-step forms or structured data collection  |

## Installation

Install the skills using the CLI:
```bash
npx skills add open-circle/agent-skills
npx add-skill open-circle/agent-skills
```

Or copy individual skill folders into your project's `.skills/` directory.

## Usage

1. The agent loads all available skills at startup.
2. Instructions are read from each `SKILL.md` file.
3. The agent applies these rules during:

   * Schema definition
   * Validation
   * Form handling

No prompt changes are required.

## Skill structure

Each skill folder contains:

- **SKILL.md** — Instructions and metadata for the agent
- **references/** — Additional documentation (optional)
- **scripts/** — Executable code (optional)
- **assets/** — Templates and resources (optional)


## FAQ

### Is this only for Open Circle projects?

No. Skills can be used with any agent runtime that loads instructions from `SKILL.md` files.



### Do I need to modify my prompts?

No. Skills are applied automatically by the agent runtime.



### Can I use only one skill?

Yes. Install individual skills or ignore unused ones.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## About Open Circle

[Open Circle](https://opencircle.dev) is a GitHub organization serving as a shared home for open-source projects that share a philosophy around modularity, type safety, and developer experience.

### Projects

- **[Valibot](https://valibot.dev)** — The modular and type safe schema library for validating structural data
- **[Formisch](https://formisch.dev/)** — The modular and type-safe form library for any framework

## License

This repository is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Revise README sections for clarity and structure
Updated sections in README.md to clarify the purpose and usage of Agent Skills.

README.md, after:

# Open Circle Agent Skills

A collection of [Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io) for [Open Circle](https://opencircle.dev) projects. These skills help AI agents define how schema definitions, validation logic, and form behavior are handled with Valibot and Formisch.

## Contents

- [What are Agent Skills?](#what-are-agent-skills)
- [What These Skills Do](#what-these-skills-do)
- [When to Use These](#when-to-use-these)
- [Skills Included](#skills-included)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Skill Structure](#skill-structure)
- [FAQ](#faq)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [About Open Circle](#about-open-circle)
- [License](#license)

## What are Agent Skills?

Agent Skills are a lightweight, open format for extending AI agent capabilities with specialized knowledge and workflows. Each skill is a folder containing a `SKILL.md` file with metadata and instructions that help AI agents understand how to use specific tools and libraries.

Learn more at [agentskills.io](https://agentskills.io)

## What These Skills Do

These skills provide rules for:

* Defining and validating schemas with Valibot
* Handling form state and transitions with Formisch

Without these skills:

* Schema structure is undefined
* Form behavior is not standardized
* Agent output is inconsistent

## When to Use These

Use these when:

* Building agents that generate, validate, or reason about structured data or forms
* Using or evaluating Valibot or Formisch in agent workflows
* You want rules for how schema and form logic is applied by the agent

This requires an agent runtime that loads instructions from `SKILL.md` files.

## Skills included

| Skill             | Purpose                          | When to use                                              |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| [valibot-usage](skills/valibot-usage/)  | Schema definition and validation | Validating data structures, API responses, or user input |
| [formisch-usage](skills/formisch-usage/)| Form state handling              | Managing multi-step forms or structured data collection  |

## Installation

Install the skills using the CLI:
```bash
npx skills add open-circle/agent-skills
npx add-skill open-circle/agent-skills
```

Or copy individual skill folders into your project's `.skills/` directory.

## Usage

1. The agent loads all available skills at startup.
2. Instructions are read from each `SKILL.md` file.
3. The agent applies these rules during:

   * Schema definition
   * Validation
   * Form handling

No prompt changes are required.

## Skill structure

Each skill folder contains:

- **SKILL.md** — Instructions and metadata for the agent
- **references/** — Additional documentation (optional)
- **scripts/** — Executable code (optional)
- **assets/** — Templates and resources (optional)


## FAQ

### Is this only for Open Circle projects?

No. Skills can be used with any agent runtime that loads instructions from `SKILL.md` files.



### Do I need to modify my prompts?

No. Skills are applied automatically by the agent runtime.



### Can I use only one skill?

Yes. Install individual skills or ignore unused ones.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## About Open Circle

[Open Circle](https://opencircle.dev) is a GitHub organization serving as a shared home for open-source projects that share a philosophy around modularity, type safety, and developer experience.

### Projects

- **[Valibot](https://valibot.dev)** — The modular and type safe schema library for validating structural data
- **[Formisch](https://formisch.dev/)** — The modular and type-safe form library for any framework

## License

This repository is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).
